the megalodon is the world's most famous
ancient predator big dangerous
and deadly the meg went extinct about
3.6 million years ago
or maybe it didn't some people claim to
have seen the giant sharks
others believe megalodons are hiding
from us deep in the ocean
where people had never been such as in
the mariana trench
also people constantly find megalodon
teeth
some think it's because the giant sharks
still exist
but are just trying to avoid attracting
attention
let's compare a human to this sea
monster
in the left corner we have an average
person
5 feet 10 inches tall and weighing
pounds in the right corner a megalodon
average length 34 feet weight
about 50 tons so we're up against an
animal the size of a school bus
which has the mass of a boeing 737
let's take a closer look at the
megalodon of course
it has teeth each one is 7.1 inches long
these are the largest teeth of any shark
species that has ever lived
the megalodon also had more teeth than
any other animal
250 teeth and five rows its jaw may have
been 6.6 feet
wide you could lie inside its mouth and
feel quite comfortable
of course only if you could forget that
you were lying in the mouth of an
ancient predator
if you put on an exoskeleton made of
titanium
an encounter with the meg wouldn't be so
dangerous but its jaws are still capable
of damaging even something as tough as
this
doctors say prevention is more important
than treatment
so what could you do to prevent a
megalodon from thinking
you could be its next meal the chance of
being attacked by a shark
is much less if you're in a group of
people the shark
understands that attacking lots of
people could be dangerous
so it'll retreat peacefully unless it's
with a group of
other megalodons of course for the same
reason
don't swim too far from the shore a
megalodon can hear the vibrations in the
water if there's a large number of
people on the beach
but if you're alone in deep water
there's nothing to stop it from
attacking you
also avoid swimming in murky water
megalodons often tried to drive their
prey into patches of water like this
so the shark might think you're it's
dinner if you end up there
oh and never swim at night this is when
sharks are most
active megalodons also had an incredible
sense of smell
it's often said that sharks can smell a
drop of blood across the ocean
this is not a myth it's true though it's
a little exaggerated
sharks have a great sense of smell and
they can detect blood from a quarter of
a mile away
so before you go swimming make sure you
have no open wounds or scratches
this will not only protect you but also
other people swimming on the beach
when a megalodon picks up the smell of
blood it switches
to hunting mode from this point on the
shark probably won't be scared away by
anything now take a look at this fishing
glitter
it shines and flashes with different
colors like
other fish a megalodon would probably
pay attention to this kind of stuff
so take off all your jewelry before you
go swimming
otherwise you might just become the
human version
of fishing glitter imagine that you're
scuba diving
and you're looking at a beautiful coral
reef colorful fish are swimming all
around
and suddenly all the reef dwelling folks
swim off or hide
within a second the reef is empty this
is a clear sign that a large predator
has appeared somewhere nearby
and the words big predator in the
aquatic world
mean only one thing a shark
so get out of there
here's the best way to protect yourself
from a megalodon attack
it's the simplest and most obvious one
but people still ignore it
that's right it's a sign if you go to
the beach and see a shark sign
don't even think about going in the
water they're already there
and they're just waiting for someone to
dive in
but let's imagine that you've ignored
all the warnings and signs and decided
to go swimming
you suddenly hear people screaming from
the beach someone spotted a giant
fin poking out of the water the fin is
moving in your direction
and you need to decide what to do so how
can you protect yourself if the
megalodon attacks you
first of all stay calm yes i know we're
talking about a giant shark
but if you start panicking and hitting
the water with your hands
it'll only attract its attention try to
reach a boat or a group of people
do it as calmly as possible if you're
completely alone
you could try not moving at all usually
sharks try to bite people if it's a
regular shark there's a chance
it won't be too serious once it's had a
taste
the normal shark will probably decide to
leave you alone that's right
they actually don't find us very
appetizing
but you won't have this kind of luck
with a megalodon
its jaws are so big that it can swallow
you
whole so staying put is not an option
but if you encounter a megalodon in
shallow water
you still have a chance of surviving
because it's so enormous
the meg has problems maneuvering
especially in this kind of water
so if it misses with its first strike
it'll have to make a second run at you
just like a pilot trying to land a plane
this will give you time to get to the
shore
and to safety but what if you're in the
middle of the deep ocean
well then you're in big trouble but i'll
still try to save you
so let's say the meg is swimming in your
direction with its jaws
wide open a second later it grabs you
the structure of a megalodon's teeth
means that you only hurt yourself
more if you try to escape from its mouth
the only way you can survive
is if you make the mag let you go on its
own
if it was an ordinary shark you could
try punching its nose to make that
happen
but the megalodon's skin is so thick
that it won't feel the blows
so aim for the eyes this is its weak
spot
if it feels pain it might let you go
now you need to get some first aid fast
and you also deserve a medal for being
the only person to survive an encounter
with a megalodon
the idea of meeting one of these
ginormous predators
is pretty scary but to be honest there's
no chance they still exist
all the theories that they've avoided
extinction and are just hiding from us
are false first these giant sharks loved
warm water so there's no way they could
be hiding at great depths
in addition an animal of this size needs
a huge
amount of food but there's simply not
enough food for them deep in the ocean
and all of those giant shark teeth that
people have found can also be explained
unlike humans sharks keep growing new
teeth throughout their lives
they lose their teeth every two weeks
megalodons had the largest number of
teeth ever
so now we understand why there are so
many of them left at the bottom of the
ocean
but this doesn't mean you shouldn't be
careful real sharks still attack people
sometimes
last year there were 64 cases of
unprovoked attacks
by unprovoked i mean the shark decided
to bite somebody for no reason
there were also 41 cases where sharks
defended themselves against fishermen or
curious divers
most accidents occur in the united
states there were 41 encounters with
sharks there
21 of them occurred along the coast of
florida hawaii california
and north carolina are also pretty busy
places for sharks
australia comes next with 11 shark
accidents last year
surfers often run into sharks because
they spend a lot of time in areas where
sharks like to swim
the splashes of water from their
surfboards attract the predators and
make a nasty encounter more likely
great white sharks are the most
aggressive followed by tiger sharks
although many experts say that the bull
shark is the most dangerous in the world
but you shouldn't be scared of all
sharks for example
the nurse shark is totally harmless plus
they look super cute